---
title: "NICA: OS Support for Near-Data Network Application Accelerators"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2017-mars-nica
excerpt: ''
date: 2017-04-23
venue: "MaRS '17, The 7th Workshop on Multi-core and Rack-scale Systems"
paperurl: 'https://sites.google.com/site/mars2017eurosys/Program/nica.pdf?attredirects=0'
#citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
authors: Haggai Eran, Lior Zeno, Gabi Malka, Mark Silberstein
---

Today’s developers are facing tremendous challenges to keep up 
with skyrocketing network I/O rates. As CPU performance and 
memory bandwidth scaling stagnate, the compute capacity head- 
room for running network application logic is shrinking, leaving a 
few hundreds cycles for processing at line speed. To scale, future 
applications will have to break out of CPU-centric designs, instead 
processing data in flight on the NICs during the transfer. 
Emerging NIC architectures are turning this vision into reality, 
incorporating increasingly programmable compute elements. These modern intelligent NICs, or iNICs, are being integrated into 
modern data-centers, a process mostly driven by their ability to 
offload network functions such as virtualization bridging, network 
address translation, firewalls, network cryptography acceleration, 
and other network and transport layer applications. Yet since iNICs 
are programmable, they have the potential to accelerate higher 
level applications. Given a machine that is already equipped with 
an iNIC it would be worthwhile to utilize them for the benefit of 
other applications. 

In this work we develop NICA, a set of new OS abstractions 
and APIs that facilitate application development for both the iNIC 
and the CPU, and add support for efficient and safe execution of 
user code on iNICs. We implement a thermal monitoring service as an example, with preliminary performance results showing that the iNIC can process packet/s, 
12.3× faster than the host CPU, while using 30% less power.
